On this page

Last updated on **Jun 23, 2026**

Lakeflow Spark Declarative Pipelines (SDP) defines pipelines in source code that is specific to SDP. You can edit pipeline source in either SQL or Python, for example, in the [Lakeflow Pipelines Editor](/aws/en/ldp/multi-file-editor).

Lakeflow Connect creates pipelines that ingest data, and create ingestion streaming tables.

Databricks also provides a SQL environment called [Databricks SQL](/aws/en/sql/get-started/concepts). You can create materialized views and streaming tables with Databricks SQL using pipeline functionality outside of SDP (see [Standalone pipelines](/aws/en/ldp/dbsql/dbsql-for-ldp)). Typically, Databricks SQL is not used with Lakeflow Spark Declarative Pipelines.

However you can use `ALTER` SQL statements in Databricks SQL to modify the properties of a dataset created with either SDP, Databricks SQL, or Lakeflow Connect. Use these SQL statements from any Databricks SQL environment, whether you are modifying SDP datasets, standalone pipeline datasets, or Lakeflow Connect datasets.

* Streaming tables - [ALTER STREAMING TABLE](/aws/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-alter-streaming-table)
* Materialized views - [ALTER MATERIALIZED VIEW](/aws/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-alter-materialized-view)

For datasets backed by a standalone pipeline created in Databricks SQL, you can also change the owner with `SET OWNER TO`.

note

You can't modify the schedule or trigger of a dataset defined in SDP with an `ALTER` statement.

## Limitation: Pipeline updates and changes made with `ALTER`[​](#limitation-pipeline-updates-and-changes-made-with-alter "Direct link to limitation-pipeline-updates-and-changes-made-with-alter")

There are cases where `ALTER` statements conflict with the definition of the pipeline-created datasets. The SQL that defines a table or view in a pipeline is re-run on each update. This can undo changes you make with an `ALTER` statement.

For example, if you have a SQL statement that defines a materialized view, like the following:

SQL

```
CREATE OR REPLACE MATERIALIZED VIEW masked_view (  
    id int,  
    name string,  
    region string,  
    ssn string MASK catalog.schema.ssn_mask_fn  
  )  
  WITH ROW FILTER catalog.schema.us_filter_fn ON (region)  
  AS SELECT id, name, region, ssn  
       FROM employees;
```

Then you try to remove the mask from the `ssn` column using an `ALTER` statement, like this:

SQL

```
ALTER MATERIALIZED VIEW masked_view ALTER COLUMN ssn DROP MASK;
```

The mask is removed, but the next time the materialized view is updated the SQL definition adds it back.

To safely remove the mask, you must edit the SQL definition to remove the mask and then run the `ALTER` command to `DROP` the mask.

note

To edit the definition of a pipeline defined in SDP, edit your pipeline source using the [pipeline editor](/aws/en/ldp/multi-file-editor#pipeline-configuration). To edit the definition of a standalone pipeline, run the modified SQL statement in any Databricks SQL environment.

## Additional resources[​](#additional-resources "Direct link to Additional resources")

* [Standalone pipelines](/aws/en/ldp/dbsql/dbsql-for-ldp)
* [Develop Lakeflow Spark Declarative Pipelines](/aws/en/ldp/concepts/pipelines)
* [Develop Lakeflow Spark Declarative Pipelines code with SQL](/aws/en/ldp/developer/sql-dev)