On this page

Last updated on **Jul 7, 2026**

Monitor and query refresh data about a standalone materialized view using Catalog Explorer, `DESCRIBE EXTENDED`, or the pipeline event log.

## View the details of a single materialized view[​](#view-the-details-of-a-single-materialized-view "Direct link to view-the-details-of-a-single-materialized-view")

You can view the details of a single materialized view by using the Catalog Explorer, or programmatically, with the `DESCRIBE EXTENDED` operation. You can also query the event log for details of the refresh history of a materialized view.

### View details in Catalog Explorer[​](#view-details-in-catalog-explorer "Direct link to View details in Catalog Explorer")

You can access information about your materialized view by [viewing it in Catalog Explorer](/aws/en/ldp/dbsql/materialized-configure#view-mv-in-catalog-explorer). In Catalog Explorer, you can see the last refresh status and any refresh schedules created in SQL. For details on schedules created in SQL, see [CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW](/aws/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-create-materialized-view).

The Catalog Explorer shows details for each materialized view in a right-side pane, including:

1. **Current refresh status** and last run time. To see more details about the update, including run duration, any detailed errors, and the [refresh type](/aws/en/ldp/incremental-refresh#determine-refresh-type) (including whether the materialized view was fully or incrementally refreshed and why), click **See refresh details**.
2. **Refresh Schedule**. If the materialized view has a schedule set via SQL, the schedule is shown. To update the schedule, use [ALTER MATERIALIZED VIEW](/aws/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-alter-materialized-view).
3. **Tags**. To add custom [tags](/aws/en/database-objects/tags), click **Add tags**. Tags are not automatically used to attribute costs, but you can manually create a query to connect custom tags to your costs. For details, see [Attribute costs to the SQL warehouse with custom tags](#costs-with-custom-tags).

There are properties of the materialized view that are not available in Catalog Explorer. For those properties, or to get the information programmatically, you can use the `DESCRIBE EXTENDED` command.

### View details with `DESCRIBE EXTENDED`[​](#view-details-with-describe-extended "Direct link to view-details-with-describe-extended")

note

The `DESCRIBE EXTENDED` command is not supported on dedicated compute. You must use standard compute to run `DESCRIBE EXTENDED` on a materialized view.

You can view details about a materialized view programmatically by using the `DESCRIBE EXTENDED` command. This includes details beyond what you get from the Catalog Explorer. They include:

* The status of the latest completed refresh.
* The refresh schedule.
* The columns of the materialized view.
* The refresh type of the materialized view (not available in Catalog Explorer).
* The data size for the materialized view, in total bytes (not available in Catalog Explorer).
* The storage location of the materialized view (not available in Catalog Explorer).
* Some information is only included in the result when enabled:
  + Clustering columns, if enabled.
  + Whether deletion vectors are enabled (only shown when `true`).
  + Whether row tracking is enabled (only shown when `true`).

SQL

```
-- As table:  
DESCRIBE TABLE EXTENDED sales;  
  
-- As a single JSON object:  
DESCRIBE TABLE EXTENDED sales AS JSON;
```

### Query the event log programmatically[​](#query-the-event-log-programmatically "Direct link to query-the-event-log-programmatically")

To get details about the refresh history for a materialized view, or the details as a refresh is happening, you can query the event log programmatically.

As the pipeline owner, you can create a *view* to allow others to query the event log for your pipeline. The following query creates a view that others can use to query the event log. This query uses the `TABLE` value function to query the correct event log table.

SQL

```
CREATE VIEW my_event_log_view AS  
  SELECT *  
  FROM event_log(TABLE(<catalog_name>.<schema_name>.<mv_name>));
```

To query the event log view, use a query like the following.

SQL

```
SELECT *  
  FROM my_event_log_view  
  WHERE event_type = "update_progress"  
  ORDER BY timestamp desc;
```

To query the event log directly as the pipeline owner, you do not need to create a view. You can use the `TABLE` value function and query the data directly, such as the following sample query.

SQL

```
SELECT *  
  FROM event_log(TABLE(<catalog_name>.<schema_name>.<mv_name>))  
  WHERE event_type = "update_progress"  
  ORDER BY timestamp desc;
```

For a full list of sample queries using the event log, see [Basic query examples](/aws/en/ldp/monitor-event-logs#basic-query-examples).

## Monitor materialized view runs[​](#monitor-materialized-view-runs "Direct link to monitor-materialized-view-runs")

You can monitor pipeline runs across your workspace, using the **Jobs & Pipelines** page, the **Query History** page, or programmatically by querying the event log. You can also set up notifications for scheduled pipelines.

### View all materialized view runs in the UI[​](#view-all-materialized-view-runs-in-the-ui "Direct link to view-all-materialized-view-runs-in-the-ui")

If you use the **Jobs & Pipelines** page to monitor the status of different orchestration jobs across your workspace, you can also track all of the materialized views and streaming tables created there. Each standalone materialized view has a pipeline backing it. To see all of the materialized views and streaming tables that you have access to:

1. Click the  **Jobs & Pipelines** button on the left side of your workspace.
2. Click the **Pipelines** toggle button to filter your view to only pipelines.
3. Click **Pipeline type** button and select **MV/ST** to filter to only standalone pipelines.
4. Click the **Accessible by me** filter, to show all pipelines you have access to.

You are able to see all materialized views and streaming tables created across your org, including a summary view of the recent runs statuses. Clicking the name of a pipeline opens the pipeline monitoring details page to get more information. To learn more about the pipeline monitoring details page, see [Troubleshoot a failed refresh](#troubleshoot-failed-refresh).

### View runs using query history[​](#view-runs-using-query-history "Direct link to View runs using query history")

If you’re more familiar with the **Query History** tab, you can also use it to view all previous runs of all queries where you have at least `CAN VIEW` access to the executing SQL warehouse. You can use the query history page to access query details and query profiles that can help you identify poorly performing queries and bottlenecks in the pipeline used to run your streaming table updates. For an overview of the kind of information available for query histories and query profiles, see [Query history](/aws/en/sql/user/queries/query-history) and [Query profile](/aws/en/sql/user/queries/query-profile).

Preview

This feature is in [Public Preview](/aws/en/release-notes/release-types). Workspace admins can control access to this feature from the **Previews** page. See [Manage Databricks previews](/aws/en/admin/workspace-settings/manage-previews).

All statements related to materialized views appear in the query history. You can use the **Statement** drop-down filter to select any command and inspect the related queries. All `CREATE` statements are followed by a `REFRESH` statement that executes asynchronously on a pipeline. The `REFRESH` statements typically include detailed query plans that provide insights into optimizing performance.

To access `REFRESH` statements in the query history UI, use the following steps:

1. Click  **Query History** in the left sidebar.
2. Select the **REFRESH** checkbox from the **Statement** drop-down filter.
3. Click the name of the query statement to view summary details like the duration of the query and aggregated metrics.
4. Click **See query profile** to open the query profile. For details about navigating the query profile, see [Query profile](/aws/en/sql/user/queries/query-profile).
5. Optionally, use the links in the **Query Source** section to open the related query or pipeline.

See [CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW](/aws/en/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-create-materialized-view).

### Get notifications for scheduled refreshes[​](#get-notifications-for-scheduled-refreshes "Direct link to get-notifications-for-scheduled-refreshes")

Beta

The notifications for DDL scheduled refreshes feature is in [Beta](/aws/en/release-notes/release-types). Workspace admins can control access to this feature from the **Previews** page by opting into the *System-Managed Job for Materialized Views & Streaming Tables* preview. See [Manage Databricks previews](/aws/en/admin/workspace-settings/manage-previews).

When you create a schedule for your materialized view, you can edit it to get notifications. There are multiple ways to schedule materialized views, and getting notifications depends on which of these methods you choose:

* **Scheduled with a job**: To get notifications from a SQL task in Lakeflow Jobs, edit the task and add notifications. See [SQL task for jobs](/aws/en/jobs/tasks/sql).

  You have a wide range of options for the notifications to received, and how to receive them. See [Add notifications on a job](/aws/en/jobs/notifications)
* **Scheduled with a `SCHEDULE` clause**: To get notifications from a materialized view that is scheduled by a `SCHEDULE` clause in the SQL definition, edit it in the [Catalog Explorer](/aws/en/catalog-explorer/):

  1. Open the materialized view in Catalog Explorer.
  2. On the **Overview** tab, under **Refresh schedule**, click  to edit the schedule you want to receive notifications for.
  3. Under **More options**, add or modify notifications.

     You have the option to get notified via email on start, success, or failure of the scheduled refresh. By default, the owner is notified on failure only.

## Troubleshoot a failed refresh[​](#troubleshoot-a-failed-refresh "Direct link to troubleshoot-a-failed-refresh")

You can find failing updates for materialized views (or streaming tables) by looking through the **Jobs & Pipelines** list. To troubleshoot a failed update, use the pipeline monitoring details page or the event log.

To troubleshoot a refresh that is full when you believe it should be incremental, first check that you [have row tracking enabled](/aws/en/ldp/dbsql/materialized#mv-row-tracking) for any source Delta tables. For other details about incremental refresh, see [Support for materialized view incremental refresh](/aws/en/ldp/incremental-refresh#enzyme-support).

You can get additional details from the pipeline monitoring page, or by querying the event log programmatically.

### Using the pipeline monitoring page[​](#using-the-pipeline-monitoring-page "Direct link to Using the pipeline monitoring page")

To get more details about a materialized view (or streaming table) that has failed, you can use the pipeline monitoring page to debug issues. Each materialized view has a pipeline backing it. The pipeline monitoring page includes information, such as:

* The status of the last run and the run history.
* The last run duration.
* Whether the materialized view fully or incrementally refreshed. For more details on getting your materialized view to incrementally refresh, see [Support for materialized view incremental refresh](/aws/en/ldp/incremental-refresh#enzyme-support).
* The event log for more detailed debugging. In the event that your materialized view failed to update or had other issues, click the [issues pane](/aws/en/ldp/multi-file-editor#execution-insights) to view the logs in more detail.

To troubleshoot your materialized view:

1. In your workspace, click the  **Jobs & Pipelines** button on the left-navigation bar.
2. Click the name of your pipeline in the list.
3. If the update failed to run, the UI shows an error (or a list of errors) in the bottom pane.
4. Either click the button to **View Logs** or click the [issues pane](/aws/en/ldp/multi-file-editor#execution-insights) to view the errors in more detail.
5. This opens the event log UI. Each error has a high-level message and summary, and a JSON tab with more details. To fix an issue with the Genie Code, click **Diagnose Error**.

For more details on the pipeline monitoring page, see [here](/aws/en/ldp/monitoring-ui#pipeline-details).

### Query the refresh history for a materialized view[​](#query-the-refresh-history-for-a-materialized-view "Direct link to query-the-refresh-history-for-a-materialized-view")

The event log can be useful for setting up dashboards to monitor update status or duration across the workspace, or if you prefer programmatic monitoring over using the UI. Standalone materialized views do not support saving the event log to a metastore, so only the owner of the materialized view can query the event log directly.

To view the status of `REFRESH` operations on a materialized view, including current and past refreshes, query the pipeline event log:

SQL

```
SELECT *  
FROM event_log(TABLE(<fully-qualified-table-name>))  
WHERE event_type = "update_progress"  
ORDER BY timestamp desc;
```

Replace `<fully-qualified-table-name>` with the fully qualified name of the materialized view, including the catalog and schema. If you are not the pipeline owner, you might need to first have a view created to query the event log. See [Query the event log programmatically](#owner-event-log).

### Query the type of refresh that occurred for a materialized view[​](#query-the-type-of-refresh-that-occurred-for-a-materialized-view "Direct link to query-the-type-of-refresh-that-occurred-for-a-materialized-view")

Some queries can be incrementally refreshed. If an in