On this page

Last updated on **Jun 23, 2026**

This page introduces OpenSharing in Databricks, the secure data sharing platform that lets you share data and AI assets in Databricks with users outside your organization, regardless of whether they use Databricks. OpenSharing is also the basis for [Databricks Marketplace](/aws/en/marketplace/), an open forum for exchanging data products, and [Clean Rooms](/aws/en/clean-rooms/), a secure and privacy-protecting environment where multiple parties can work together on sensitive enterprise data.

OpenSharing is also available as an [open-source project](https://opensharing.io) that you can use to share Delta tables from other platforms.

## How does OpenSharing work?[​](#how-does-opensharing-work "Direct link to how-does-opensharing-work")

[OpenSharing](https://opensharing.io) is an [open protocol](https://go.delta.io/sharing) developed by Databricks for secure data sharing with other organizations. It works regardless of the computing platforms those organizations use.

There are a few ways to share data using OpenSharing:

1. **The Databricks-to-Databricks sharing protocol**, which lets you share data and AI assets from your Unity Catalog-enabled workspace with users who also have access to a Unity Catalog-enabled Databricks workspace.

   This approach uses the OpenSharing server that is built into Databricks. It supports some OpenSharing features that are not supported in the other protocols, including notebook sharing, Unity Catalog volume sharing, Unity Catalog AI model sharing, Unity Catalog data governance, auditing, and usage tracking for both providers and recipients. The integration with Unity Catalog simplifies setup and governance for both providers and recipients and improves performance.

   See [What is the OpenSharing Databricks-to-Databricks protocol?](/aws/en/opensharing/share-data-databricks).
2. **The Databricks-to-Open sharing protocol**, which lets you share tabular data that you manage in a Unity Catalog-enabled Databricks workspace with users on any computing platform.

   This approach uses the OpenSharing server that is built into Databricks and is useful when you manage data using Unity Catalog and want to share it with users who don't use Databricks or don't have access to a Unity Catalog-enabled Databricks workspace. The integration with Unity Catalog on the provider side simplifies setup and governance for providers.

   See [What is the OpenSharing Databricks-to-Open sharing protocol?](/aws/en/opensharing/share-data-open).
3. **A customer-managed implementation of the open-source OpenSharing server**, which lets you share from any platform to any platform, whether Databricks or not.

   The Databricks documentation does not cover instructions for setting up your own OpenSharing server. See [the open source project](https://go.delta.io/sharing).
4. **The SAP Business Data Cloud (BDC) Connector for Databricks**, which lets you share data between your Unity Catalog-enabled workspace and an SAP BDC account.

   This approach uses the SAP BDC Connector, which utilizes OpenSharing for live, zero-copy access to SAP BDC data products.

   See [What is the SAP BDC Connector for Databricks?](/aws/en/opensharing/sap-bdc/#what-is).

## Shares, providers, and recipients[​](#shares-providers-and-recipients "Direct link to shares-providers-and-recipients")

The primary concepts underlying OpenSharing in Databricks are *shares*, *providers*, and *recipients*.

### What is a share?[​](#what-is-a-share "Direct link to what-is-a-share")

In OpenSharing, a *share* is a read-only collection of tables and table partitions that a provider wants to share with one or more recipients. If your recipient uses a Unity Catalog-enabled Databricks workspace, you can also include notebook files, views (including dynamic views that restrict access at the row and column level), Unity Catalog volumes, and Unity Catalog models in a share.

You can add or remove tables, streaming tables, managed Iceberg tables, views, materialized views, volumes, models, and notebook files from a share at any time, and you can assign or revoke data recipient access to a share at any time.

In a Unity Catalog-enabled Databricks workspace, a share is a securable object registered in Unity Catalog. If you remove a share from your Unity Catalog metastore, all recipients of that share lose the ability to access it.

See [Create shares for OpenSharing](/aws/en/opensharing/create-share).

### What is a provider?[​](#what-is-a-provider "Direct link to What is a provider?")

A *provider* is an entity that shares data with a recipient. If you are a provider and you want to take advantage of the built-in Databricks OpenSharing server and manage shares and recipients using Unity Catalog, you need at least one Databricks workspace that is enabled for Unity Catalog. You do not need to migrate all of your existing workspaces to Unity Catalog. You can simply create a new Unity Catalog-enabled workspace for your OpenSharing needs.

If a recipient is on a Unity Catalog-enabled Databricks workspace, the provider is also a Unity Catalog securable object that represents the provider organization and associates that organization with a set of shares.

### What is a recipient?[​](#what-is-a-recipient "Direct link to What is a recipient?")

A *recipient* is an entity that receives shares from a provider. In Unity Catalog, a share is a securable object that represents an organization and associates it with a credential or secure sharing identifier that allows that organization to access one or more shares.

As a data provider (sharer), you can define multiple recipients for any given Unity Catalog metastore, but if you want to share data from multiple metastores with a particular user or group of users, you must define the recipient separately for each metastore. A recipient can have access to multiple shares.

If a provider deletes a recipient from their Unity Catalog metastore, that recipient loses access to all shares it could previously access.

See [Create data recipients for OpenSharing (Databricks-to-Databricks sharing)](/aws/en/opensharing/create-recipient).

## Databricks-to-Open sharing versus Databricks-to-Databricks sharing[​](#databricks-to-open-sharing-versus-databricks-to-databricks-sharing "Direct link to databricks-to-open-sharing-versus-databricks-to-databricks-sharing")

This section describes the two protocols for sharing from a Databricks workspace that is enabled for Unity Catalog.

note

This section assumes that the provider is on a Unity Catalog-enabled Databricks workspace. To learn about setting up an open-source OpenSharing server to share from a non-Databricks platform or non-Unity Catalog workspace, see [the open source project](https://go.delta.io/sharing).

The way a provider uses OpenSharing in Databricks depends on who they are sharing data with:

* *Open sharing* lets you share data with any user, whether or not they have access to Databricks.
* *Databricks-to-Databricks sharing* lets you share data with Databricks users whose workspace is attached to a Unity Catalog metastore that is different from yours. Databricks-to-Databricks also supports notebook, volume, and model sharing, which is not available in Databricks-to-Open sharing.

### What is open OpenSharing?[​](#what-is-open-opensharing "Direct link to what-is-open-opensharing")

If you want to share data with users outside of your Databricks workspace, regardless of whether they use Databricks, you can use open OpenSharing to share your data securely. As a data provider, you manage authentication with the sharing recipient using either of the following methods:

* You generate a long-lived bearer token and share it securely with the recipient. They use the token to authenticate and get read access to the tables you've included in the shares you've given them access to.
* You use Open ID Connect (OIDC) federation, granting short-lived Databricks OAuth tokens to the recipient in exchange for JWT tokens that the recipient's identity provider (IdP) passes to Databricks.

Recipients can access the shared data using many computing tools and platforms, including:

* Databricks
* Apache Spark
* Pandas
* Power BI

For a full list of OpenSharing connectors and information about how to use them, see the [OpenSharing](https://opensharing.io) documentation.

See also [What is the OpenSharing Databricks-to-Open sharing protocol?](/aws/en/opensharing/share-data-open).

### What is Databricks-to-Databricks OpenSharing?[​](#what-is-databricks-to-databricks-opensharing "Direct link to what-is-databricks-to-databricks-opensharing")

If you want to share data with users who have a Databricks workspace that is [enabled for Unity Catalog](/aws/en/data-governance/unity-catalog/enable-workspaces), you can use Databricks-to-Databricks OpenSharing. Databricks-to-Databricks sharing lets you share data with users in other Databricks accounts, whether they're on AWS, Azure, or GCP. It's also a great way to securely share data across different Unity Catalog metastores in your own Databricks account. Note that there is no need to use OpenSharing to share data between workspaces attached to the same Unity Catalog metastore, because in that scenario you can use Unity Catalog itself to manage access to data across workspaces.

One advantage of Databricks-to-Databricks sharing is that the share recipient doesn't need a token to access the share, and the provider doesn't need to manage recipient tokens. The security of the sharing connection—including all identity verification, authentication, and auditing—is managed entirely through OpenSharing and the Databricks platform. Another advantage is the ability to share Databricks notebook files, Unity Catalog volumes, and Unity Catalog models.

See also [What is the OpenSharing Databricks-to-Databricks protocol?](/aws/en/opensharing/share-data-databricks).

## How do provider admins set up OpenSharing?[​](#how-do-provider-admins-set-up-opensharing "Direct link to how-do-provider-admins-set-up-opensharing")

This section gives an overview of how providers can enable OpenSharing and initiate sharing from a Unity Catalog-enabled Databricks workspace. For open-source OpenSharing, see [the open source project](https://go.delta.io/sharing).

Databricks-to-Databricks sharing between Unity Catalog metastores in the same account is always enabled. If you are a provider who wants to enable OpenSharing to share data with Databricks workspaces in other accounts or non-Databricks clients, a Databricks account admin or metastore admin performs the following setup steps (at a high level):

1. Enable OpenSharing for the Unity Catalog metastore that manages the data you want to share.

   note

   You do not need to enable OpenSharing on your metastore if you intend to use OpenSharing to share data only with users on other Unity Catalog metastores in your account. Metastore-to-metastore sharing within a single Databricks account is enabled by default.

   See [Enable OpenSharing on a metastore](/aws/en/opensharing/set-up#enable).
2. Create a share that includes data assets registered in the Unity Catalog metastore.

   If you are sharing with a non-Databricks recipient (known as Databricks-to-Open sharing) you can include tables in the Delta format. If you plan to use [Databricks-to-Databricks sharing](#d-to-d), you can also add views, Unity Catalog volumes, Unity Catalog models, and notebook files to a share.

   See [Create shares for OpenSharing](/aws/en/opensharing/create-share).
3. Create a recipient.

   See [Create data recipients for OpenSharing (Databricks-to-Databricks sharing)](/aws/en/opensharing/create-recipient).

   If your recipient is not a Databricks user, or does not have access to a Databricks workspace that is enabled for Unity Catalog, you must use [Databricks-to-Open sharing](#open). You can either generate bearer-token-based credentials for that recipient or use OIDC federation.

   If your recipient has access to a Databricks workspace that is enabled for Unity Catalog, you can use [Databricks-to-Databricks sharing](#d-to-d), and no token-based credentials are required. You request a *sharing identifier* from the recipient and use it to establish the secure connection.

   tip

   Use yourself as a test recipient to try out the setup process.
4. Grant the recipient access to one or more shares.

   See [Manage access to OpenSharing data shares (for providers)](/aws/en/opensharing/grant-access).

   note

   This step can also be performed by a non-admin user with the `USE SHARE`, `USE RECIPIENT` and `SET SHARE PERMISSION` privileges. See [Unity Catalog privileges reference](/aws/en/data-governance/unity-catalog/access-control/privileges-reference).
5. Send the recipient the information they need to connect to the share (Databricks-to-Open sharing only).

   For Databricks-to-Open sharing using bearer tokens, use a secure channel to send the recipient an activation link that allows them to download their token-based credentials. See [Send the recipient their connection information](/aws/en/opensharing/create-recipient-token#send).

   For Databricks-to-Open sharing using OIDC token federation, send the generated portal URL. See [Enable Open ID Connect (OIDC) federation for OpenSharing recipients](/aws/en/opensharing/create-recipient-oidc-fed).

   For Databricks-to-Databricks sharing, the data included in the share becomes available in the recipient's Databricks workspace as soon as you grant them access to the share.

The recipient can now access the shared data.

## How do recipients access the shared data?[​](#how-do-recipients-access-the-shared-data "Direct link to How do recipients access the shared data?")

Recipients access shared data assets in read-only format. Shared notebook files are read-only, but they can be cloned and then modified and run in the recipient workspace just like any other notebook.

Secure access